## Setting Code Breakpoints:

Breakpoints can be set with the **_break_** command (_short form: **b**_).

```
(gdb) break main
Breakpoint 1 at 0x11a9
(gdb) b fibbonacci
Breakpoint 2 at 0x1169
```
## Listing Code Breakpoints:

Breakpoints can be listed with either **_info breakpoints_** or the shorter forms **_info break_** and **_info b_**

```
(gdb) info breakpoints
Num     Type           Disp Enb Address            What
1       breakpoint     keep y   0x00000000000011a9 <main>
2       breakpoint     keep y   0x0000000000001169 <fibbonacci>
(gdb) info b
Num     Type           Disp Enb Address            What
1       breakpoint     keep y   0x00000000000011a9 <main>
2       breakpoint     keep y   0x0000000000001169 <fibbonacci>
```
## Unsetting Code Breakpoints:

The **_`clear <address>`_** command can remove a breakpoint at the address, specified either by a symbol name, or a * followed by an absolute memory address.

```
(gdb) clear *0x00000000000011a9
(gdb) info b
Deleted breakpoint 1 Num     Type           Disp Enb Address            What
2       breakpoint     keep y   0x0000000000001169 <fibbonacci>
(gdb) clear fibbonacci
(gdb) info b
Deleted breakpoint 2 No breakpoints or watchpoints.
```
The **_`delete <breakpoint number from info breakpoints>`_** (_short form: **d**_) will delete the specific breakpoint given by a number taken from the "_info b_" output.

```
(gdb) b main
Breakpoint 3 at 0x11a9
(gdb) info b
Num     Type           Disp Enb Address            What
3       breakpoint     keep y   0x00000000000011a9 <main>
(gdb) delete 3
(gdb) info b
No breakpoints or watchpoints.
```
## Breakpoints as offets vs. addresses in memory

Note in the below how when breakpoints are initially printed out, they are small numbers. But then when the program is started, and they are printed out again, they are larger numbers. This is because before the program is **r**un, the "address" is really just an offset from the start of the code execution of the executable. The debugger doesn't yet know where the program will be loaded into memory, until it's actually executed. This is also true because operating systems may randomize where the executable is loaded in memory (a mechanism called Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR), which is designed to help mitigate some security vulnerabilities.) Therefore, after the executable is started, the debugger now can display the real addresses for the executable after it has been loaded in memory and started. (Note: if you do the same steps, your addresses will often differ from what's shown below.)